\documentclass[preprint, 3p,
authoryear]{elsarticle} %review=doublespace preprint=single 5p=2 column
%%% Begin My package additions %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

\usepackage[hyphens]{url}

  \journal{Journal} % Sets Journal name

\usepackage{lineno} % add
  \linenumbers % turns line numbering on

\usepackage{graphicx}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% end my additions to header

\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\usepackage{fixltx2e} % provides \textsubscript
% use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\else % if luatex or xelatex
  \usepackage{fontspec}
  \ifxetex
    \usepackage{xltxtra,xunicode}
  \fi
  \defaultfontfeatures{Mapping=tex-text,Scale=MatchLowercase}
  \newcommand{\euro}{â‚¬}
    \setmainfont{Times New Roman}
\fi
% use microtype if available
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{\usepackage{microtype}}{}
\usepackage[]{natbib}
\bibliographystyle{plainnat}

\ifxetex
  \usepackage[setpagesize=false, % page size defined by xetex
              unicode=false, % unicode breaks when used with xetex
              xetex]{hyperref}
\else
  \usepackage[unicode=true]{hyperref}
\fi
\hypersetup{breaklinks=true,
            bookmarks=true,
            pdfauthor={},
            pdftitle={Big Spenders: Large-N Measures of Urban Regimes in Japanese Cities},
            colorlinks=true,
            urlcolor=blue,
            linkcolor=blue,
            pdfborder={0 0 0}}

\setcounter{secnumdepth}{0}
% Pandoc toggle for numbering sections (defaults to be off)
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{0}


% tightlist command for lists without linebreak
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}


% Pandoc citation processing
\newlength{\cslhangindent}
\setlength{\cslhangindent}{1.5em}
\newlength{\csllabelwidth}
\setlength{\csllabelwidth}{3em}
\newlength{\cslentryspacingunit} % times entry-spacing
\setlength{\cslentryspacingunit}{\parskip}
% for Pandoc 2.8 to 2.10.1
\newenvironment{cslreferences}%
  {}%
  {\par}
% For Pandoc 2.11+
\newenvironment{CSLReferences}[2] % #1 hanging-ident, #2 entry spacing
 {% don't indent paragraphs
  \setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
  % turn on hanging indent if param 1 is 1
  \ifodd #1
  \let\oldpar\par
  \def\par{\hangindent=\cslhangindent\oldpar}
  \fi
  % set entry spacing
  \setlength{\parskip}{#2\cslentryspacingunit}
 }%
 {}
\usepackage{calc}
\newcommand{\CSLBlock}[1]{#1\hfill\break}
\newcommand{\CSLLeftMargin}[1]{\parbox[t]{\csllabelwidth}{#1}}
\newcommand{\CSLRightInline}[1]{\parbox[t]{\linewidth - \csllabelwidth}{#1}\break}
\newcommand{\CSLIndent}[1]{\hspace{\cslhangindent}#1}

\usepackage{caption}
\usepackage{setspace}\doublespacing
\usepackage{lscape}
\newcommand{\blandscape}{\begin{landscape}}
\newcommand{\elandscape}{\end{landscape}}
\usepackage{colortbl}
\usepackage{xcolor}
\usepackage{makecell}
\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage{longtable}
\usepackage{array}
\usepackage{multirow}
\usepackage{wrapfig}
\usepackage{float}
\usepackage{colortbl}
\usepackage{pdflscape}
\usepackage{tabu}
\usepackage{threeparttable}
\usepackage{threeparttablex}
\usepackage[normalem]{ulem}
\usepackage{makecell}
\usepackage{xcolor}



\begin{document}


\begin{frontmatter}

  \title{Big Spenders: Large-N Measures of Urban Regimes in Japanese
Cities}
    \author[Systems Engineering Program, Cornell University]{Timothy
Fraser%
  \corref{cor1}%
  \fnref{1}}
   \ead{timothy.fraser.1@gmail.com} 
      \affiliation[Ezra Systems Postdoctoral Research Associate]{Systems
Engineering, Cornell University}
    \cortext[cor1]{Corresponding author}
    \fntext[1]{This is the first author footnote.}
  
  \begin{abstract}
  This is the abstract. It consists of two paragraphs.
  \end{abstract}
    \begin{keyword}
    urban regime \sep cities \sep policy \sep social welfare \sep social
capital \sep 
    Japan
  \end{keyword}
  
 \end{frontmatter}

\captionsetup[table]{labelformat=empty}
\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
\captionsetup{font=large}

\hypertarget{introduction}{%
\section{1. Introduction}\label{introduction}}

Who governs? As cities face increasing threats from climate change and
climatic hazards, the coalitions and interests of power brokers who
govern our cities are likely changing. Since Dahl's
\citeyearpar{dahl_1961} case study of New Haven's mayor posed the famous
question, ``Who Governs?'', scholars have puzzled over the governance of
cities: Much attention has been paid to different types of coalitions
\citep{munoz_and_henry_1986, stone_1989, stoker_and_mossberger_1994, gilliam_1996, davies_2017, russo_and_scarnato_2018},
mayors
\citep{ramirez_perez_et_al_2008, debenedictis_kessner_and_warshaw_2016, freier_and_thomasius_2016, einstein_and_glick_2018},
and interest groups
\citep{logan_and_rabrenovic_1990, mossberger_and_stoker_2001, cooper_et_al_2005, portney_and_berry_2016, anzia_2019}
that govern city politics. Urban regime scholars argue that the
powerbrokers together constitute an ``urban regime'' \citep{stone_1993},
coined in Clarence Stone's \citeyearpar{stone_1989} study of Atlanta
politics. ``Urban regime'' refers to elected officials and unelected
powerbrokers alike, such as influential firms, NGOs, or citizens groups,
who determine what policy actions a city can and cannot take
\citep{mossberger_and_stoker_2001}. As cities experience more disasters,
migration, and social change in the face of storms, floods, fires,
hurricanes, and other disasters, we would naturally expect these urban
regimes to change. But to date, these changes have been difficult to
detect systematically, with most work on urban regimes focusing on
single city case studies; to date, the largest samples of cities
systematically classified by urban regime has been De Socio's
\citeyearpar{de_socio_2007} 24-city sample and Kilburn's
\citeyearpar{kilburn_2004} 14-city sample, using Stone's
\citeyearpar{stone_1993} 4 regime type classification.

This study aims to fill that gap, introducing a framework for measuring
city's propensity towards each of 4 common urban regime types, and
evaluating the change in frequencies of urban regimes over time. I
employ Stone's \citeyearpar{stone_1993} 4-regime classification, which
includes (1) caretaker, (2) developmental, (3) middle-class, and (4)
social welfare regimes, discussed in the literature review.

These categories raise natural questions in the face of climate change:
In the face of crisis, have social welfare regimes become more common,
compared to regimes prioritizing business or middle-class interests? Or,
have city politics stagnated with a rise in caretaker regimes that
simply maintain the status quo? To answer these questions, I apply this
framework to a Large-N sample of 1741 Japanese municipalities over 20
years from 2000 to 2020. The Japan Statistical Bureau reports
considerable annual data for each municipality, allowing scholars to
approximate the basic contours of cities' urban regimes by a simple,
publicly available proxy of each cities' governance priorities:
\emph{spending rates.} While spending cannot tell us specific actors
that govern, it can broadly approximate which of Stone's
\citeyearpar{stone_1993} 4 types of regimes are driving city policy.
Generally speaking, a true developmental regime would spend more city
funs in support of business needs; similarly, a true social welfare
regime would spend more in support of social welfare needs. Not to
replace, but to aid qualitative investigations of urban regimes, this
study designs a method to make Large-N comparisons among thousands of
cities at a time. I posit that we can detect measurable differences
among cities in terms of their spending rates.

As a preview of my results, I find that even after accounting for
population and inflation, city spending rates vary substantially over
time, with certain urban regimes' spending priorities becoming more
common with each passing year while others become less common. In
particular, I document the 20-year rise of the social welfare regime as
the most common type of urban regime, growing from just XX\% of cities
in 2000 to YY\% of cities in 2020. I also detect geographic patterns,
with coastal areas investing more heavily in social welfare regime
priorities over time. These are exciting and heartening findings,
because they indicate that while national-level governance on climate
has made progress with starts and stops, our cities are not unilaterally
gridlocked, stuck in caretaker, status quo regimes. Instead, many cities
are transitioning to social welfare regimes, increasing their spending
on social welfare issues like food security, housing, and disaster
recovery above the median level nationwide.

\hypertarget{literature-review}{%
\section{2. Literature Review}\label{literature-review}}

\hypertarget{urban-regime-theory}{%
\subsection{2.1 Urban Regime Theory}\label{urban-regime-theory}}

Since Stone's \citeyearpar{stone_1989} examination of urban regimes in
Atlanta, dozens of case studies have detailed different urban regimes
and governance arrangements throughout the world
\citep{stoker_and_mossberger_1994, mossberger_and_stoker_2001, de_socio_2007, camou_2014, davies_and_blanco_2017, rosol_et_al_2017, russo_and_scarnato_2018}.
Over 30 years since the term's coining, urban regimes received praise
\citep{kilburn_2004, davies_and_imbroscio_2009} and criticism
\citep{sites_1997, davies_2003, imbroscio_2003, imbroscio_2004} for how
easily it can be applied to understand city politics.

Many regimes once thought to be long-standing have come undone and
changed quickly in recent years \citep{stone_2015, stone_et_al_2015},
making the field awash in related terms like ``urban governance''
\citep{pierre_2014, da_cruz_et_al_2019}, governance networks
\citep{gissendanner_2003, davidson_et_al_2019}, policy networks
\citep{bulkeley_and_betsill_2013, hawkins_et_al_2016, wukich_2022},
public-private partnerships
\citep{stoker_1998, davies_2017, guo_and_ho_2019}, and multi-tiered
political orders \citep{stone_2015, weaver_2022}, or a just, socially
equitable city \citep{campbell_1996, fainstein_2010}. Others extended
definitions of urban regimes, applying versions of it to social welfare
crisis in the face of mass displacement and other social crises
\citep{lambelet_2019}.

Nomenclature aside, these frameworks all generally aim to explain ``who
governs,'' but systematic categorizations of many cities at once have
been rarer, usually confined to small-to-medium-N analyses
\citep{sellers_2002, kilburn_2004, stone_et_al_2015, davies_and_blanco_2017}.
Below, I synthesize a basic typology of urban regimes for measurement
from the extended literature, and outline the argument for why it
matters `who governs' cities in the face of climate change.

\hypertarget{redistributive-politics}{%
\subsection{2.2 Redistributive Politics}\label{redistributive-politics}}

For the purposes of this study, urban regimes also are an effective,
local level tool for thinking about the broader class of politics that
climate resilience initiatives exemplify: redistributive policies, a
familiar, long-standing, and particularly pernicious policy challenge
for cities
\citep{meltzer_and_scott_1981, pierson_1994, hacker_2004, iversen_and_soskice_2006, mettler_2011, rueda_and_stemueller_2019}.
National, regional, and city governments each work with redistributive
policies, aiming to provide en masse specific public goods that are
particularly difficult for residents to obtain individually, especially
for vulnerable residents.

Previous literature dealt with electoral (Meltzer \& Richards; Iversen
\& Soskice 2006), institutional
\citep{pierson_1994, hacker_2004, mettler_2011}, or street-level
implementation \citep{lipsky_1980, hupe_and_hill_2007} explanations for
the success and continuity of redistributive policies. However, these
studies dealt less with the community resources available to cities,
like partnerships with businesses
\citep{stone_1989, mossberger_and_stoker_2001}, civil society advocacy
groups \citep{portney_and_berry_2016}, neighborhood associations
\citep{logan_and_rabrenovic_1990}, and local networks
\citep{aldrich_and_meyer_2015}. These often overlooked community
resources can play important roles in redistributing resources to
residents in need \citep{aldrich_and_kioyta_2017, klinenberg_2018}.

What kinds of redistributive policies, then, were past scholars writing
about? The classic example of redistributive policy is social welfare
support for low-income families and unemployment insurance
\citep{pierson_1994, hacker_2004}, to abate the health and economic
challenges of entrenched poverty
\citep{ahammer_packham_2020, berkowitz_and_basu_2021}. In addition to
these, governments have tackled many redistributive policy issues in the
past. These include, for example:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Social security policies aimed to eliminate poverty among the elderly,
  by redistributing the resources of other age groups (Titmus 1965,
  Conde-Ruiz \& Profeta 2007).
\item
  Universal health care, or market solutions, both aim to eliminate loss
  of life and financial ruin due to medical expenses, by redistributing
  the costs of health care issues to the entire population
  \citep{mettler_2011}.
\item
  Public education sought to remedy lack of access of education and
  opportunity in working class families by publicly funding education
  through the taxbase \citep{mettler_2005}.
\item
  Highway systems
  \citep{congleton_and_bennett_1995, zhu_and_brown_2013},
  electrification \citep{baker_and_phillips_2019, breetz_et_al_2018},
  and public transportation \citep{hood_2006} seek to connect citizens
  and expand economic development, important to everyone, but are
  challenging for any one city or company to pay for
  \citep{boarnet_and_haughwout_2000}.
\end{itemize}

These redistributive programs frequently develop policy constituencies
if the group benefitting from them is sizable enough
\citep{meltzer_and_richard_1981, campbell_2012}; in some states, these
programs' continuation is conditional, becoming political currency for
pork-barrel politics \citep{fukui_and_fukai_1996, catalinac_et_al_2020},
while in others, they become permanent fixtures in national policy
\citep{pierson_1994}.

However, moving beyond these federal- or state-level examples, in fact,
cities have been tackling redistributive issues for generations
\citep{peterson_1981, saiz_1999, tonkiss_2020}. Cities use
redistributive policies to remedy unequal access to employment in
neighborhoods by funding public transit for all
\citep{frankena_1973, asensio_et_al_2003, glaeser_et_al_2009, fearnley_and_aarhaug_2019, wiesel_and_liu_2021}.
They may support local businesses that might struggle to secure
consistent customers by providing public venues or markets
\citep{tangires_1997}. Cities may use public funds to free up real
estate and housing available in various neighborhoods
\citep{detter_and_folster_2017}, or, in the shameful history of many
cities, cities can be complicit in redlining and illegally restricting
access to housing \citep{rothstein_2017}. Lately, cities' efforts at
improving health equity are especially visible, as cities conduct and
manage public health campaigns, like current city efforts to rollout
testing and vaccination during the COVID-19 pandemic
\citep{berkowitz_and_basu_2021}. Some national governments lean on
cities to provide services that legitimize their state
\citep{wallace_2013}. And in many countries, cities play a key role in
the disbursement and coordination of social welfare distribution
\citep{katz_and_allen_2001, weir_and_kind_2021}, and must secure the
necessary funding for these projects \citep{payson_2022}.

Climate resilience initiatives, on the other hand, are a new form of
redistributive policy. These initiatives extend critical benefits to
society, but often struggle to achieve electoral support because their
benefits are diffuse, except to the most vulnerable in society who need
them. However, not all types of urban regimes prioritize redistributive
policies like social welfare support; indeed, three out of the four
regime types discussed below specifically prioritize other needs. Social
welfare's relevance to climate resilience makes it especially important
to identify whether social welfare-oriented regimes are increasing or
declining.

\hypertarget{types-of-urban-regimes}{%
\subsection{2.3 Types of Urban Regimes}\label{types-of-urban-regimes}}

As discussed above, Clarence Stone \citeyearpar{stone_1993} and later
comparative studies \citep{kilburn_2004, de_socio_2007} primarily relied
on 4 main types of urban regimes, including (1) caretaker, (2)
developmental, (3) middle-class, and (4) social welfare regimes. Over 30
years, scholars have created numerous other types of urban regimes,
sometimes conflicting or concept stretching, as some have argued
\citep{mossberger_and_stoker_2001}; however, these original 4 regime
types are still arguably the main types at play today. I outline in
Table \ref{tab:regimelit} a basic typology.

\newpage
\begin{landscape}

\begin{table}

\caption{Table \ref{tab:regimelit}\label{tab:regimelit}: Typology of Urban Regimes}
\centering
\begin{tabu} to \linewidth {>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{2cm}>{\raggedright}X>{\raggedright}X>{\raggedright}X>{\raggedright}X}
\toprule
Regime & Definition & Examples & Related & Japanese Examples\\
\midrule
Caretaker & maintains status quo, traditional municipal service provision & New Orleans (Whelan et al. 1994) & Maintenance/Status Quo (Stone 1989)
                 

                 Bystander (Portz 1990)
                 

\cellcolor{gray!6}{                 Austerity (Davies \& Blanco 2017)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-}\\
Developmental & promotes economic growth while preventing economic decline & Atlanta (Stone 1989) & Entrepreneurial Regimes (Euchner 1993)
                 

                 Public-Private Partnerships (Davies 2017)
                 

                 Player (Portz 1990)
                 

                 Castle Towns (Funabashi 2006; Hill \& Fujita 1993) & Tokyo (Saito 2003; Tsukamoto 2012; Sorensen et al. 2010)
    

    Kitakyushu (Yeum 2002)
    

    Minamata (Funabashi 2006)
    

    Kobe Post-1995 (Edgington 2010)\\
Middle-Class & promotes egalitarian policies in education, health, environment, and city planning & Santa Cruz (Gendron \& Domhoff 2018) & Progressive (Stone 1989)
                

                'Anti-Regime' (DeLeon 1992) & Mitaka (Takao 2006)
                           

                           Kyoto (Sugiyama \& Takeuchi 2008)
                           

\cellcolor{gray!6}{                           Iida (Fraser et al. 2020)}\\
Social Welfare & improves conditions for working class, expands social safety net & Early Toronto (Mahon 2007 & Opportunist (Stone 1989)
                 

                 Activist (Clark 2001)
                 

                 Stewardship Regimes (Nissen 1995) & Yokohama (Hayashi 2013)
                           
Mikura Ward, Kobe (Yasui 2007)\\
\bottomrule
\end{tabu}
\end{table}

\end{landscape}
\newpage

The first type is (1) \emph{caretaker regimes}. In these cities, the
incumbent regime seeks to maintain a city's status quo
\citep{turner_1992, whelan_et_al_1994}. The municipality provides basic
services, but avoids expanding. Past studies labeled the city of New
Orleans, pre-Katrina, as a good example. Other terms capture the same
approximate meaning, including maintenance regimes \citep{stone_1989} or
bystander regimes \citep{portz_1990}, which refer to regimes that played
no major role when industrial firms closed shop in the US rustbelt.
Relatedly, some cities have also organized under austerity regimes,
focused on cutting expenses, rather than expanding policies; this
subtype lies somewhere between caretaker regimes and developmental
regimes, as they usually cut expenditures on social welfare or
progressive causes, but not necessarily economic interests
\citep{davies_and_blanco_2017}. To the author's knowledge, few studies
have tracked caretaker regimes in Japan; this study aims to help remedy
that.

The second type is (2) \emph{developmental regimes.} These regimes
prioritize economic development and business interests, while preventing
economic decline
\citep{stone_1989, austrian_and_rosentraub_2002, de_socio_2007}. A
robust literature has covered these, starting with archetypes like
Stone's \citeyearpar{stone_1989} Atlanta. Scholars have proposed several
subtypes over the years that group well under developmental regimes,
including entrepreneurial regimes, describing regimes' enticement with
sports industries \citep{euchner_1993}, tourism-focused regimes
\citep{russo_and_scarnato_2018}, public private partnerships
\citep{davies_2017}, and player cities, describing those which advocate
intensely to bring in or keep industry \citep{portz_1990}. A related
concept in the Japanese literature is ``castle towns,'' referring to
cities where the entire city government and economy is closely
structured around one industry \citep{hill_and_fujita_1993}. Famous
examples include Minamata, which suffered considerable environmental
pollution due to the Chisso corporation in the 1950s
\citep{funabashi_2006}; more recent examples of castle towns are nuclear
power plant host communities \citep{aldrich_and_fraser_2017}.

Developmental regimes and related types have received considerable
attention in Japan, with studies emphasizing the neoliberal,
developmental priorities of property development in post-Bubble Tokyo
\citep{saito_2003, tsukamoto_2012, sorensen_et_al_2010}, developmental
priorities in reconstruction plans from the Kobe Earthquake
\citep{edgington_2010}, and early efforts to reduce air pollution in
industrial cities like Kitakyushu \citep{yeum_2002}.

The third common type is (3) \emph{middle-class regimes} (a.k.a.
progressive regimes\^{}{[}Usually called progressive regimes, I term
these `middle-class' regimes to avoid confusion with the next type,
which support progressive, redistributive policies.{]}). These regimes
support middle-class, progressive interests like environmentalism,
health care, education, and quality city planning
\citep{deleon_1992, gendron_and_domhoff_2018, rosdil_2016}. Past
examples include politically left-wing city politics in Santa Cruz, San
Francisco, and Seattle, among others \citep{gendron_and_domhoff_2018}.
These regimes focus on a specific type of progressivism, namely
egalitarian ideals, such as environmental conservation and
sustainability \citep{rosol_et_al_2017}, but these regimes tend to
support middle-class interests, rather than working class interests
\citep{kilburn_2004}.

Famous Japanese examples include Mitaka City, a Tokyo suburb known for
progressive environmental policy, quality of life, and citizen
engagement \citep{takao_2006}. Similarly, large cities like Kyoto
\citep{sugiyama_and_takeuchi_2008} and smaller cities like Iida in
Nagano Prefecture \citep{fraser_et_al_2020} have both received attention
for their cities' emphasis and leadership on environmentalism.

Finally, the fourth type refers to (4) \emph{social welfare regimes}
(a.k.a. opportunist regimes\emph{\^{}{[}*Sometimes called
``opportunist'' regimes, referring to aims to expand the social safety
net, this study re-terms this category `social welfare regimes', to more
respectfully characterize these policies.{]})}*. These regimes
prioritize social welfare support for the working class and related
redistributive policies, such as unemployment insurance, public housing,
and financial support for families in need, eg. after crisis
\citep{stone_1993, thompson_2005, camou_2014, lai_and_chui_2014, arbaci_2019}.Related
monikers include `opportunist regimes,' as in those aiming to expand the
social safety net \citep{stone_1989}, activist regimes
\citep{clark_2001}, which use neighborhood coalitions and activist
groups to push for social equity \citep{thompson_2005}, labor coalitions
\citep{camou_2014}, and stewardship regimes \citep{nissen_1995}, which
negotiate with businesses for fair treatment of workers. While the shape
of social welfare policy varies by city and country, Canadian and UK
cities are particularly known for efforts to expand social safety nets
\citep{saraceno_2002}, like Toronto's early work expanding childcare
\citep{mahon_2007}, although Toronto has shifted over time to a
developmental/progressive regime. Japanese urban studies research has
highlighted Yokohama for its particularly expansive support for the
homeless \citep{hayashi_2013}, as well as specific city wards like the
working class neighborhood of Mikura in Kobe for its robust advocacy for
social equity in the reconstruction process after the 1995 Kobe
Earthquake \citep{yasui_2007}.

\hypertarget{correlates-of-urban-regimes}{%
\subsection{2.4 Correlates of Urban
Regimes}\label{correlates-of-urban-regimes}}

Given how useful social welfare regimes can be in the era of climate
change, what kinds of cities develop social welfare regimes, and which
do not? While little literature directly tackles this question, past
studies summarized below suggest several likely correlates.

\hypertarget{demographic-and-financial-correlates-of-urban-regimes}{%
\subsubsection{2.4.1 Demographic and Financial Correlates of Urban
Regimes}\label{demographic-and-financial-correlates-of-urban-regimes}}

First, we expect some cities are predisposed towards certain types of
urban regimes. Highly populated cities, cities with higher income per
capita, cities with more revenue per capita, and cities with better
balanced budgets have more funds and other resources to spend on
advancing a social welfare regime (or a developmental or middle-class
regime, for that matter). But cities who receive a larger share of their
annual budget from the national or prefectural government may face more
pressure to conform with national or prefectural objectives, which often
come in the shape of economic development policy. Such cities might
invest \emph{less} in social welfare.

\hypertarget{partisanship-and-urban-regimes}{%
\subsubsection{2.4.2 Partisanship and Urban
Regimes}\label{partisanship-and-urban-regimes}}

Second, party interests may push some cities towards or against social
welfare spending. The Liberal Democratic Party is, despite its name,
Japan's long-time conservative party, and traditionally promotes
business interests and economic development. Past studies explains that
when the LDP accepts social welfare policies, it usually does so to
counter any competitive advantage that policy gives left-leaning
opposition parties prior to elections, as was the case in universal
health care legislation. Cities where the Liberal Democratic Party
performed well in recently elections thus likely have little incentive
to adopt social welfare policies; their local officials and prefectural
party machine are more likely to push for developmental policies.

\hypertarget{social-capital-and-urban-regimes}{%
\subsubsection{2.4.3 Social Capital and Urban
Regimes}\label{social-capital-and-urban-regimes}}

However, cities with greater collective action potential might be more
likely to adopt social welfare regimes, if local residents have strong
social capital. Past literature highlights that social capital, the
social ties that bind residents \citep{putnam_2000, woolcock_2010}, come
in three different forms with distinct impacts on public participation
and policymaking: bonding, bridging, and linking social capital
\citep{aldrich_and_meyer_2015}.

\hypertarget{bonding-social-capital}{%
\paragraph{Bonding Social Capital}\label{bonding-social-capital}}

Bonding social capital refers to strong in-group ties between members of
the same social strata (eg. race, ethnicity, age, gender, income)
\citep{mcpherson_et_al_2001, mouw_2006}. We might expect bonding social
ties to help residents petition for more middle class interests, which
benefit a broad swath of residents, but fail to organize broad,
cross-community coalitions to support social welfare
\citep{tsai_2007, cox_2011, alcorta_et_al_2020}.

\hypertarget{bridging-social-capital}{%
\paragraph{Bridging Social Capital}\label{bridging-social-capital}}

In contrast, bridging social capital refers to strong inter-group ties
connecting members of different social strata (eg. members of different
racial, ethnic, age, gender, or income backgrounds)
\citep{putnam_2000, aldrich_2019}. A vast literature suggests that
stronger bridging social ties help residents organize to improve access
to public goods for the \emph{entire} community, because they build
strong inter-group trust and reciprocity that encourages folks to
mobilize, vote, and participate in civil society.

\hypertarget{linking-social-capital}{%
\paragraph{Linking Social Capital}\label{linking-social-capital}}

Finally, linking social capital refers to vertical ties connecting
residents to local officials \citep{woolcock_2010, aldrich_2019}. We
might expect that cities with stronger linking social capital are less
likely to be caretaker regimes, but could result in greater social
welfare, developmental, or middle class regimes, depending on residents'
interests. In addition to the concepts discussed above, cities with
higher levels of education and lower levels of population turnover also
tend to build stronger social ties. To date however, despite the strong
likelihood of a connection between social capital and urban regimes, no
study to the author's knowledge has yet investigated these two concepts
together.

\hypertarget{timing-and-path-dependence}{%
\subsection{2.5 Timing and Path
Dependence}\label{timing-and-path-dependence}}

Finally, timing matters. First, social welfare regimes (and spending in
general) is notoriously path dependent, where once governments
institutionalize certain spending programs, they tend to stick around.
Second, regimes may shift according to the social constraints of the
time. After the 2011 triple disaster, a surge of disaster recovery
spending occurred in the Tohoku region; we might expect this disaster
pushed some cities towards social welfare regimes in order to provide
better for vulnerable families and elders in the aftermath. Conversely,
some cities rebuild primarily according to central government
instructions, spending primarily on infrastructure while neglecting
community spending; as a result, the impact of the disaster on social
welfare regime evolution is currently unclear.

Similarly, local and national rhetoric on spending has changed over
time; concepts like the 1980s' Washington Consensus, the 1992 economic
bubble burst in Japan, the 1995 Kobe Earthquake, the 2008 Great
Recession, and the 2011 disaster each greatly shifted the conversation
on spending; some governments post-recession advocated austerity, while
the 2011 disaster highlighted great need and vulnerability of residents
to crisis, both in Tohoku and elsewhere, leading to the 2015 Sendai
Framework, which advocated a need for investment in local communities to
`build back better' after crisis so as not to leave communities
vulnerable again. Each of these influences could propel or hinder the
growth of social welfare regimes, begging the question, which direction
have Japanese cities moved over time?

\hypertarget{hypotheses}{%
\subsection{2.6 Hypotheses}\label{hypotheses}}

In summary, these four types capture a wide range of urban regime
literature, each with distinct priorities that would lead to \emph{more}
or \emph{less} spending in specific areas. I formalize these
expectations with two hypotheses:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{H1}: First, I hypothesize that these urban regimes are not
  evenly distributed throughout the country, but rather that some types
  of urban regimes are increasing over time.
\item
  \textbf{H2}: Second, I hypothesize that social welfare regimes,
  compared to other types, have increased over the last two decades of
  climatic hazards, opening up new communities to new changes in the
  social safety net.
\item
  \textbf{H3}: Third, I hypothesize that cities with greater collective
  action potential, particularly those with greater bridging social
  capital, were more likely to develop social welfare regimes.
\end{itemize}

Below, I outline set of methods to measure each cities' propensity
towards these four regimes.

\hypertarget{data}{%
\section{3. Data}\label{data}}

This study aims to describe and characterize the urban regimes of a
large-N sample of cities over time, to determine how and under what
conditions these cities' regimes have changed. I examine the case of
Japan, tracking the full universe of municipalities (cities, towns,
villages, and Tokyo's special wards) that govern their own budgetary and
administrative affairs, each capable of producing an urban regime that
shapes local governance and spending.

\hypertarget{why-japan}{%
\subsection{3.1 Why Japan?}\label{why-japan}}

While the urban regime framework was originally developed in a US
context \citep{stone_1989}, it has been applied widely throughout the
world, with strong followings in the US \citep{kilburn_2004}, UK
\citep{bassett_1996, davies_2017}, Europe
\citep{stoker_and_mossberger_1994, arbaci_2019}, Japan
\citep{hill_fujita_2000, saito_2003, sorensen_et_al_2010, tsukamoto_2012},
China, Hong Kong \citep{lai_and_chui_2014}, South Korea
\citep{shin_et_al_2015}, and comparative settings
\citep{mossberger_and_stoker_2001, ramirez_perez_et_al_2008}. Japan is a
useful test case as an industrialized democracy and the 3rd largest
economy in the world, a useful comparison case for many Global North
states like the US, UK, France, Germany, South Korea, and Taiwan, among
others. Facing frequent floods, typhoons, and earthquakes compared to
peer economies, Japan's experience gives us a glimpse of what kind of
urban regime transition we might expect in future years due to climate
change in the cities of similar industrialized democracies.

\hypertarget{unit-of-observation}{%
\subsection{3.2 Unit of Observation}\label{unit-of-observation}}

I track the full universe of 1739 municipalities for which spending data
was available between 2000 and 2018, over 19 years. The final sample
narrows into 1738 unique municipalities, which varied over time due to
mergers and new divisions, from 1428 cities in 2000 to 1727 cities in
2018, dubbed `cities' below, totaling 31,493 city-year observations. To
ensure a comparable sample, this omits 12 outlier cities at
times.\footnote{I omitted 11 cities in the Fukushima Exclusion Zone from
  2011 onwards, plus Yubari, Hokkaido for the full period, totaling 12
  cities (n = 107 city-years). I omit these because these extremely
  depopulated cities face dire social and economic conditions quite
  different from the rest of Japan.}

\hypertarget{urban-regime-indices}{%
\subsection{3.3 Urban Regime Indices}\label{urban-regime-indices}}

To represent urban regimes, this study developed new indices. Clarence
Stone and likeminded scholars sorted cities into four types of urban
regimes, including caretaker (status quo), developmental (pro-business),
middle-class (egalitarian), and social-welfare (working-class) governing
coalitions
\citep{stone_1989, stoker_and_mossberger_1994, mossberger_and_stoker_2001, kilburn_2004, de_socio_2007}.
Over time, Stone himself advocated for attention to change over time in
urban regimes, arguing that ``there is little reason to expect a stable
and cohesive governing coalition in today's cities''
\citep{stone_et_al_2015}. For this reason, one might now expect
considerable variation in urban regimes among cities, especially over
time. Though the inner-workings of governing coalitions in Japan's
municipalities are black boxes, unobservable without detailed
qualitative study of each, these coalitions can be generally sorted
based on \emph{how strongly each city's spending reflects the interests
of a specific urban regime.} This matches Stone's original conception of
urban regimes, about which he wrote: ``If a governing coalition is to be
viable, it must be able to mobilize resources commensurate with its main
policy agenda'' \citep{stone_1993}.

To represent these 4 urban regimes, this study presents 3 new indices,
based on 15 spending indicators, depicting how much a city prioritizes
spending types expected in a \textbf{social welfare} (SW),
\textbf{middle class} (MC), or \textbf{developmental} (D) regime
respectively, where low scores among all 3 depicting a
\textbf{caretaker} regime (C). Each regime index reflects the average
(mean) of cities logged spending rates on priorities that regime
typically champions (described further below). I trimmed all logged
rates to the 99\% most common values to protect against outlier bias,
clipping any city-years above the 99.5th percentile or below the 0.5th
percentile at those limits.\footnote{I use the mean, rather than median,
  to give each spending priority equal weight; the mean better captures
  variation particularly when one of these priorities (eg. social
  assistance vs.~unemployment) exceeds or lags behind others.}

\hypertarget{indicators}{%
\subsubsection{3.3.1 Indicators}\label{indicators}}

Annual spending indicators are logged municipal spending rates, measured
in 1000s of yen per capita to account for population, log-transformed to
account for right-skew common in rates, and inflation-adjusted to the
year 2020. I transformed each indicator into a mean-centered z-scores,
to account for different ranges, and averaged related indicators
together into the 3 indices. To demonstrate their internal validity
below, I introduce each indicator and report their correlation with
their respective index below, using the Pearson's r correlation
coefficient (where -1 shows negative trends, +1 shows positive trends,
and 0 shows neither). Each indicator captures a different aspect of that
urban regime; no regime must invest equally in, for example, each social
welfare indicator to count as such a social welfare regime, so maximal
correlations are unlikely, but positive correlations are a good sign of
internal validity.

Each indicator shows positive correlations with their overall index.
This is a great sign, indicating that an increase in any of the three
indices does generally correspond to a strong increase in its
indicators. Additionally, spending rates produced better internal
consistency than percentages of the budget, likely because each city's
share of spending on different issues varies depending on external
factors.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  The \textbf{Social Welfare regime} index combines 6 types of spending
  on working-class interests, which are highly correlated with the final
  index, according to their Pearson's r correlation coefficient. These
  including (1) social welfare assistance for low income residents (r =
  0.65), (2) assistance for children (0.45), (3) assistance for elders
  (0.66), (4) labor expenditures including unemployment relief and
  vocational training (0.3), (5) emergency services like fire
  departments (0.58), and (6) public housing (0.32). Correlations vary
  somewhat, since some social welfare regimes focus more on unemployment
  while others focus more on social welfare for elders and children, for
  example, and so our average takes this variation into account.
\item
  The \textbf{Middle Class regime} index combines spending on 5
  middle-class interests, which are highly correlated with the final
  index. These include (7) education (r = 0.5), (8) social education
  (including lifelong learning and cultural facilities) (0.42), (9)
  health care and public health services (0.59), environmental interests
  like (10) waste and recycling (0.42), and (11) city planning (0.17).
  (Planning has a weaker, but clearly positive linear relationship with
  middle class regimes, and it is an important aspect of cities focused
  on quality of life.)
\item
  The \textbf{Developmental regime} index combines spending rates on 4
  economic development interests, which correlate well with the final
  index. These include (12) agriculture, forestry, and fisheries (r =
  0.64), (13) commerce and manufacturing (0.49), large infrastructure
  like (14) roads and bridges (0.69), as well as (15) ordinary
  construction works (0.62).
\end{itemize}

Each index is mean-centered, where 0 represents the average level of
spending nationwide over time on a certain regime's issue areas, and
higher/lower values denote more/less spending rates on that regime's
issue areas, on average. -1 represents one standard deviation lower
spending than average, and +1 represents one standard deviation higher
than average. Their distributions are highlighted in Figure A1.

\hypertarget{classifying-cities-by-regime-type}{%
\subsubsection{3.3.2 Classifying Cities by Regime
Type}\label{classifying-cities-by-regime-type}}

\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{0.5}\selectfont
\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.5}

\begingroup\fontsize{9}{11}\selectfont

\begin{ThreePartTable}
\begin{TableNotes}
\item[1] City-years classified based on three regime scores being above (High) or below (Low) threshold.
\item[2] \% of cases, when using median as threshold; robustness check uses mean as threshold.
\end{TableNotes}
\begin{longtable}[t]{>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{3.9cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.75cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.5cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.5cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.75cm}>{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{1.25cm}>{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{1.25cm}}
\caption{\label{tab:regimeclass}Table \ref{tab:regimeclass}: \textbf{Regime Classifications}}\\
\toprule
\multicolumn{2}{c}{ } & \multicolumn{3}{c}{Index Scores$^{1}$} & \multicolumn{2}{c}{\makecell[c]{Percentage of Cases\\by Threshold$^{2}$}} \\
\cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){3-5} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){6-7}
Name & Code & Social Welfare & Middle Class & Developmental & Median & Mean\\
\midrule
\addlinespace[0.10cm]
\multicolumn{7}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Classic Regimes}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor[HTML]{ffb000}{\textcolor{black}{Social Welfare}} & SW & \cellcolor[HTML]{C5C6D0}{High} & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & 8.1 & 8.5\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor[HTML]{648FFF}{\textcolor{white}{Middle Class}} & MC & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & \cellcolor[HTML]{C5C6D0}{High} & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & 7.8 & 6.4\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor[HTML]{696880}{\textcolor{white}{Developmental}} & D & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & \cellcolor[HTML]{C5C6D0}{High} & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & 5.9 & 6.9\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor[HTML]{ADADC9}{\textcolor{black}{Caretaker}} & C & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & 28.6 & 33.4\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{7}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Hybrid  Regimes}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor[HTML]{DC267F}{\textcolor{white}{Social Welfare Hybrid (1)}} & SW-MC & \cellcolor[HTML]{C5C6D0}{High} & \cellcolor[HTML]{C5C6D0}{High} & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & 5.6 & 4.4\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor[HTML]{ff683b}{\textcolor{white}{Social Welfare Hybrid (2)}} & SW-D & \cellcolor[HTML]{C5C6D0}{High} & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & 7.4 & 8.3\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor[HTML]{5542AD}{\textcolor{white}{Hybrid}} & SW-MC-D & \cellcolor[HTML]{C5C6D0}{High} & \cellcolor[HTML]{C5C6D0}{High} & \cellcolor[HTML]{C5C6D0}{High} & 29.0 & 25.3\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor[HTML]{001FA2}{\textcolor{white}{Middle Class Hybrid}} & MC-D & \cellcolor{white}{Low} & \cellcolor[HTML]{C5C6D0}{High} & \cellcolor[HTML]{C5C6D0}{High} & 7.7 & 6.9\\
\bottomrule
\insertTableNotes
\end{longtable}
\end{ThreePartTable}
\endgroup{}

\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1}
\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{1}\selectfont

\doublespacing

Further, we use these indices to empirically classify cities into urban
regime types, using our 3 indices' medians to demarcate 8
classifications, to represent the general range of regimes a city can
occupy, including our 4 primary urban regimes and 4 hybrids. Table
\ref{tab:regimeclass} lists each combination. If just 1 index ranked
above the median, I classified a city as that type of regime, including
Social Welfare (SW = 8.1\%), Middle Class (MC = 7.8\%), and
Developmental regimes (D = 5.9\%). If all 3 indices ranked below the
median, I classified that as a Caretaker regime (C = 28.6\%).
\textbf{Hybrids} describe cities prioritizes interests of 2 or more
regimes. If 2 indices ranked above the median, I classified that as
either a Social Welfare Hybrid Regime (SW-MC = 5.6\%, SW-D = 7.4\%) or a
Middle Class Hybrid Regime (MC-D = 7.7\%). 3 indices above the median
translate to a full hybrid regime (SW-MC-D = 29\%). The more common
hybrids tend to involve Social Welfare traits (and follow the same
increase over time as social welfare regimes). (I repeated this process
using the mean as our cutpoint, showing similar proportions of cases in
each group.)

\hypertarget{change-over-time}{%
\subsection{3.4 Change over Time}\label{change-over-time}}

\begin{figure}
\includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{viz/bands} \caption{Figure \ref{fig:bands}: Indices Change Over Time}\label{fig:bands}
\end{figure}

\doublespacing

But are these urban regimes fixed, or fluid? Do cities transition
between regime types to accomplish their aims? I examined this with
continuous and categorical analyses below. First, in Figure
\ref{fig:bands}, I examined the changing median score (\textbf{black}
line) over time for my 3 urban regime indices. Surrounding the median,
red bands show the most common 50\% of scores, represented by the
interquartile range (25-75th percentiles), and grey bands show the most
commonly occurring 90\% scores among cities (5-95\% percentiles). This
chart shows that while cities' status as developmental and middle class
regimes (based on their spending) did not change especially, the share
of cities spending more on social welfare issues sharply increased in
the years leading up to and after 2011.

\begin{figure}
\includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{viz/percent_area} \caption{Figure \ref{fig-area}\label{fig-area}: Change in Regime Types by Percentage over Time}\label{fig:area}
\end{figure}

\doublespacing

Second, to contextualize this, I measured the changing annual
percentages of regimes based on their urban regime classifications from
Table \ref{tab:regimeclass}; I stack the 4 types of regimes where social
welfare regime indices were above the median. This highlights the
sizable increase in social welfare spending. Social welfare regimes
(yellow) increased from \textgreater1\% in 2000 to 13\% in 2018, with a
max of 14\% in 2012. Including social welfare hybrid regimes that also
focused on middle class (orange) or developmental spending (red), these
increased from 5\% in 2000 to 32\% in 2018, surging 18\% between 2008 to
2012 to 31\% in 2012. When we include hybrid regimes that spent above
the median on social welfare, middle class, and developmental interests
(purple), the total share spikes considerably. This combined total
represents all cities that spent above the median on social welfare,
regardless of their other regime scores. Starting at 23\% in 2000, the
share of cities that spent above the median on social welfare share
increased considerably between 2008 and 2012, jumping 33\% from 35\% to
68\%, ending in 2018 at 70\% of the whole sample. During the same
period, the frequency of solely middle class or developmental regimes
declined greatly, from above 10\% each to below 5\% each, while
caretaker regimes surged, then declined, starting and ending at about a
quarter of cities.

\begin{figure}
\includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{viz/map_categories_3} \caption{Figure \ref{fig-map}\label{fig-map}: The Spread of Social Welfare Regimes Over Time}\label{fig:map}
\end{figure}

The spread of social welfare regimes is especially evident in Figure
\ref{fig-map}, which uses an Azthumal Equidistant Projection, titled for
readability (North is on the right), to map \emph{when} and \emph{where}
these social welfare-inclined regimes emerged. East, northeast, and
southeast Japan transitioned from caretaker regimes in 2000 to many new
social welfare-related regimes by 2018. While the 2011 tsunami likely
impacted this, the change appears to have preceded the 2011 tsunami,
with many social welfare regimes emerging already by 2010. By 2018, a
full 20.9\% of cities in Kyushu had become pure Social Welfare regimes,
with similar results in Shikoku (18.9\%) and Chugoku (15.9\%). After
including social welfare hybrids (SW-M \& SW-D), social welfare-related
regimes are even more common in Shikoku (47.4\%), Kyushu (46.5\%),
Kansai (39.6\%), and Chugoku (36.4\%). And after including pure hybrids
(SW-MC-D), this covers almost all cities in some regions, especially
frequent in Hokkaido (97.8\% of cities), Shikoku (91.6\%), Kyushu
(87.2\%), Chugoku (84.2\%), and Tohoku (84.2\%). These tallies represent
a major change from 2000, when pure social welfare regimes were most
common in Kyushu (2.4\%). (Some places do, however, seem to host more
hybrid regimes over time; hybrid appear very common in rural regimes in
Hokkaido both in 2000 (72.4\%) and in 2018 (97.8\%), characterized by
high per-capita spending on all three types of spending priorities.)

To summarize, these descriptive investigations show that cities do
transition between regime types, and that social welfare regimes have
become considerably more common over time. But perhaps these increases
are merely artifacts of other demographic or political economic changes;
to ensure a more accurate picture, I turn to statistical methods with
controls below.

\hypertarget{methods}{%
\section{4. Methods}\label{methods}}

Next, I turn to statistical models to discern clearer estimates of the
effect of time on urban regimes and of key correlates. Using the social
welfare regime index as my dependent variable, I applied ordinary least
squares models with annual fixed effects, the appropriate technique for
a normally distributed outcome. Annual fixed effects account for
temporal heterogeneity, the appropriate technique for capturing distinct
effects each year. I generated 8 models (see Table A2), each with
successively more statistical or design-based controls, to ensure our
results are robust to model specification. (Then, for further
validation, I repeated these models, predicting as my dependent variable
the middle class regime index, in Table A3, and then the developmental
regime index, in Table A4).

\hypertarget{basic-covariates}{%
\subsection{4.1 Basic Covariates}\label{basic-covariates}}

I employ 23 statistical controls with annual and prefectural fixed
effects to predict social welfare regime scores. In Model 1, I predicted
social welfare regime scores using annual fixed effects plus basic
demographic controls, including (1) population, (2) inhabitable area in
hectares to account for city size, (3) the percentage of residents over
age 65, to account for aging and policy preferences from elders
vs.~working-age adults, and (4) income per capita in 1000s of yen, to
account for wealth. Further, I applied basic revenue controls: To
represent cities' spending capacity, I controlled for (5) revenue per
capita in 1000s of yen; (6) the percentage of revenue coming from
national or prefectural government funding, to account for financial
autonomy or lack thereof; and (7) each city's real term budget balance,
so as not to overvalue the strength of a regime whose spending exceeds
its means.

In Model 2, I added 5 disaster controls. To account for disaster
conditions, I controlled for (8) disaster deaths and (9) buildings
damaged, each per 100,000 residents, as well as (10) whether each town
was hit by the 2011 tsunami or not (1/0). Further, I controlled for
disaster spending rates per 1,000 residents on (11) recovery, meaning in
this context physical reconstruction, and (12) disaster relief. None of
my urban regime indicators overlap with disaster spending, although we
might expect that social welfare and developmental priorities might
overlap with recovery and relief efforts, so they are important
covariates.

Next, in Model 3, I added controls for the other 2 regime indices not
being predicted; when predicting social welfare, I controlled for (13)
middle class and (14) developmental regime scores, to disentangle their
effects.

Then, in Model 4, I added partisanship and collective action, alongside
necessary controls. To represent support for political parties, I
controlled for the percentage of voters who voted for the winning LDP
candidate (or its coalition partner Komeito, which competes in separate
jurisdiction). This helps account for pork-barrel politics, common among
LDP candidates, where winning candidates reward supporting constituents
with public works funding and construction contracts. I controlled for
this two ways, using votes (15) in the most recent Lower House Election
and (16) in the most recent prefectural election, to account for the
more diverse politics of local elections. These are distinct concepts,
with weak correlations (r = 0.12). These are better controls than, say,
mayoral partisanship, because Japanese mayors often run as nonpartisan
and \emph{must} collaborate across party lines to govern.

In addition to political ties, I also controlled for (17) bonding, (18)
bridging, and (19) linking social capital, using Fraser's annual social
capital indices (2000-2017), which measure each type of social capital
from 0 to 1 by averaging indicators from publicly available proxies.
These indices demonstrated strong internal and external validity in
their validation study \citep{fraser_2021_IJDRR}, predicting known
correlates in public policy on environment, disasters, and health in 9
studies to date
\citep[eg.][]{fraser_et_al_2020, fraser_and_aldrich_2021_SR, fraser_et_al_2021_CRM, fraser_et_al_2022_EIST}.
The \emph{bonding index} averages 7 proxies of in-group ties that
capture much residents in a community hail from the \emph{same} social
strata, in terms of nationality, religion, education, employment status,
employment by gender, communication capacity, and age. These homophily
measures (not sheer demographics) capture the density of potential
in-group social ties between members of the same social strata (see
\citet{fraser_2021_IJDRR} for extended literature). The \emph{bridging
index} averages 8 measures of civil society participation, which tend to
facilitate encounters and social ties between members of
\emph{different} social strata \citep{putnam_2000}, including
population-normalized rates of nonprofits, religious groups, unions,
community centers, libraries, volunteerism, and voter turnout in
prefecture and lower house elections. (I simplified the bridging index
into equally sized quartiles to avoid collinearity with regime
indicators, while still capturing a 4-point gradation from low to high.)
Finally, the \emph{linking index} averages 6 rates of access and
connection to government officials, including local officials,
prefectural officials, police, prefectural assembly members, and
voteshare won by the winning party in prefectural and lower house
elections.\footnote{Winning party support is different from my controls
  for partisanship, which only captures the LDP/Komeito, excluding the
  Democratic Party of Japan, which was in power from 2009 to 2012).
  Social capital indices are distinct from partisanship controls; Lower
  House partisanship is only weakly correlated with bonding (r = -0.12),
  bridging (r = \textasciitilde0), and linking (r = 0.34); prefectural
  partisanship is only weakly correlated with bonding (r = -0.09),
  bridging (r = -0.05), and linking (r = 0.06).}

Last, I added to Model 4 controls for (20) education, using the share of
college educated adults, (21) the share of unemployed adults in the
labor force, and (21) the total migration rate, reflecting the sum of
any in- or out-migration, which might negatively impact social cohesion
and is an important control.

\hypertarget{robustness-checks}{%
\subsection{4.2 Robustness Checks}\label{robustness-checks}}

Next, I added several further adjustments to ensure robust estimation.
In Model 5, I added prefectural fixed effects, with Hokkaido as the
baseline and modal category, to account for geographic heterogeneity.
Then, in Model 6, I controlled for path dependence using a 1-year lagged
dependent variable; for social welfare, this means controlling for the
preceding year's social welfare score. Then, in Model 7, to guard
against endogeneity bias, I lagged by 1 year all other predictors (aside
from annual and prefectural fixed effects), to predict the \emph{next}
year's urban regime score using the preceding year's data. Lags
constrains the sample in Models 6 onwards to 29755 cases (2001-2018),
but ensures conservative estimates.

Finally, in Model 8, I add a series of standard log, logit, and root
transformations to my predictors to better match their distributions and
capture clear nonlinear trends, adding a small constant where necessary.
Area, income, and migration were logged. Revenue used the square root;
the 10th root was used for Population (to avoid colinearity with
spending), disaster deaths, damages,recovery spending, and relief
spending (since the distributions have frequent, meaningful zeros). Age,
voteshares, social capital, education, and unemployment were logit
transformed, since they are bounded at 0 and 1; the bridging index was
left in quartiles to avoid collinearity with regime indicators.

Descriptive statistics and exact transformation for all predictors are
shown in Table A1.

These transformations made statistically significant improvements in
log-likelihood compared to Model 7 (p \textless{} 0.001); similarly, the
change in deviance statistic shows statistically significant reductions
in the residual sum of squares after adding new variables to each model,
indicating that Model 8 fit best. F Statistics shows that each model
fits better than an intercept model. No problematic collinearity was
observed, with all variance inflation factor scores below 10, the
threshold for problematic collinearity. Multiple imputation (i = 5) was
used to fill in missing data, representing less than 1\% of data points
(0.3\%).\footnote{Variables with missing data included prefectural votes
  (n = 1299, \textless0.172\%), lower house votes (n = 521,
  \textless0.069\%), income (n = 269, \textless0.036\%), and college (n
  = 46, \textless0.006\%), revenue-derived varaibles (n = 14,
  \textless0.002\%).}

Compared to our first model, our final, fully specified, transformed
model explains 92\% of the variance in social welfare regimes, an
extremely high amount. Further, the sigma statistic (residual standard
error) in Table A2 shows that my final model predicts each city-year's
social welfare regime score with an average error of just 0.18 points,
and within a 95\% confidence interval of 0.35 points. These are
extremely favorable accuracy levels, considering that my outcome has a
range of 5.12.

Then, I applied the same analyses to middle class and developmental
indices, repeating Models 1-8 from \textbf{Table A2} as developmental
models 9-16 in \textbf{Table A3} and middle-class regime Models 17-24 in
\textbf{Tables A4}, as alternative perspectives. However, my main
analysis focuses on social welfare regimes, to distinguish the drivers
behind the rise of this regime over time. My best models (Models 8, 16,
and 24) explain extremely high shares of variation in social welfare (R2
= 92\%, Table A2), developmental (R2 = 93\%, Table A3), and middle class
regime scores (R2 = 83\%, Table A4).

\hypertarget{hypothesis-testing}{%
\subsection{4.3 Hypothesis Testing}\label{hypothesis-testing}}

Finally, having applied a large set of controls to account for
alternative explanations, I formally test my hypotheses on my models
using the following strategies. To test my first and second hypotheses,
that (\textbf{H1}) regimes scores are changing over time and that
(\textbf{H2}) social welfare regimes are changing more than other
regimes, I used linear hypothesis tests in
\textbf{Table  \ref{tab:linearhyp}}. Linear hypothesis tests can compare
two model coefficients within the same model to evaluate whether one
coefficient is greater than the other, as well as whether that
difference is \emph{statistically significant}.

Using the annual fixed effects from the fully specified models for each
index (Models 8, 16, \& 24), I evaluated whether, for example, the
effect of 2002 was significantly different from the benchmark compared
to the benchmark year of 2001 (ie. whether the coefficient was
significantly different from zero). Then, I evaluated average annual
effect across all years \emph{before} the 2011 disaster (2002-2010), and
the average annual effect \emph{after} the 2011 disaster (2011-2018).
This allowed me to compute the average treatment effect of the
post-disaster period compared to the pre-disaster period. Should these
effects be significant, it would indicate that urban regimes have, on
average, changed greatly over time, even accounting for all other model
covariates.

Then, to test my second hypothesis, I compare average treatment effects
across different regime types, also in
\textbf{Table \ref{tab:linearhyp}}. If social welfare regimes saw a
significant average treatment effect, but developmental and middle class
regimes did not, this would indicate social welfare regimes were
disproportionately impacted by this sea-change in urban regimes.

\hypertarget{simulating-the-median-city}{%
\subsection{4.4 Simulating the Median
City}\label{simulating-the-median-city}}

Finally, to test my third hypothesis, that collective action potential
is associated with cities' transition to social welfare regimes, I
investigated the effects bonding, bridging, and linking social capital
on each regime index using effects simulated from my fully specified
models (Models 8, 16, \& 24). I simulated quantities of interest from
these highly accurate models using 1000 statistical simulations in R.
Simulation is a frequently used method for generating model predictions
\citep{king_et_al_2000, imai_et_al_2008, choirat_et_al_2016}, accounting
for both estimation uncertainty (using a multivariate normal
distribution) and fundamental uncertainty (by averaging over random
draws), which allows us to estimate expected outcomes with precise
confidence intervals based on 1000 simulations. My simulations calculate
the expected outcome for a hypothetical average city-year by varying
just one predictor while holding all other predictors constant at their
medians (or for categorical variables, their modes).

Unless stated otherwise, all simulations below use Model 8 in Table A2
to predict social welfare regime scores for the median city. This city
has a population of 24,750 residents, spans 4,170 hectares of
inhabitable land, hosts an income per capita of 1,199,190 yen per capita
(\textasciitilde\$9,183 USD), with 28\% of residents over age 65. The
median city in Japan during this period also has low rates of adults
with some college education (25\%), moderately high unemployment
(4.6\%), and shares of high total migration (6\%). It received 503,740
yen per capita in revenue last year, 16\% of which came from national or
prefectural government, and has a real term budget balance of +4.7. The
city voted for winning LDP/Komeito candidate in moderate-to-high rates,
at 51\% in Lower House elections and 32\% in prefectural elections.
Further, we assume median levels of bonding (0.71), bridging (0.32
\textasciitilde{} 2nd quartile), and linking social capital (0.25).
Then, to ensure our estimates are unaffected by disaster or other
regimes, we hold all disaster conditions and spending variables at 0,
for a city unaffected by 3/11, and hold all regime scores from the
preceding year at 0 (the natural mean of these Z-scores, very close to
the median); to account for time and geography, simulations assume a
context of Aichi prefecture in 2018, as an `ordinary' prefecture with
cities large and small.

\hypertarget{results}{%
\section{5. Results}\label{results}}

\hypertarget{testing-temporal-effects}{%
\subsection{5.1 Testing Temporal
Effects}\label{testing-temporal-effects}}

This study set out to examine (\textbf{H1}) \emph{whether} urban regimes
in Japanese have changed measurably in terms of spending priorities over
the last 20 years, (\textbf{H2}) whether social welfare regime in
particular have grown more common, after accounting for alternative
explanations with statistical controls, and (\textbf{H3}) whether
collective action potential is related to the hypothesized rise in
social welfare regimes. Below, we outline our findings.

\singlespacing
\newpage
\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{0.5}\selectfont
\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.5}

\begingroup\fontsize{9}{11}\selectfont

\begin{ThreePartTable}
\begin{TableNotes}
\item \textit{Note: } 
\item Statistical Significance: *** p < 0.001, ** p < 0.01, * p < 0.05, . p < 0.10. All p-values and asterisks reflect two-tailed hypothesis tests. Based on annual fixed effects from Models 8, 16, \& 24 in Tables A2, A3, \& A4, respectively.
\end{TableNotes}
\begin{longtabu} to \linewidth {>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{2.25cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.35cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{0.9cm}>{}l>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.35cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{0.9cm}>{}l>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.35cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{0.9cm}>{}l}
\caption{\label{tab:linearhyp}Table \ref{tab:linearhyp}: \textbf{Linear Hypothesis Tests of Temporal Effects}}\\
\toprule
\multicolumn{1}{c}{ } & \multicolumn{3}{c}{\makecell[c]{Social Welfare\\Regime}} & \multicolumn{3}{c}{\makecell[c]{Developmental\\Regime}} & \multicolumn{3}{c}{\makecell[c]{Middle Class\\Regime}} \\
\cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){2-4} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){5-7} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){8-10}
Year & Estimate & SE & 95\% CI & Estimate  & SE  & 95\% CI  & Estimate   & SE   & 95\% CI  \\
\midrule
\addlinespace[0.3em]
\multicolumn{10}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Pre-Disaster}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{2002} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908336b5d9f.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.04***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590872d01134.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590835d223e3.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}2003 & -0.02. & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908422148a.pdf} & -0.08*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59083fc17458.pdf} & -0.07*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59084f1e20d0.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{2004} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.03**} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59084c4015cd.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.06***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590860174b06.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.02.} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59089177fb3.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}2005 & +0.04*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908abe7d87.pdf} & -0.07*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590864721fcc.pdf} & -0.01 & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590831897064.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{2006} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.02*} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59085e0cb00.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.09***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590834db686e.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.03***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59087edb382f.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}2007 & +0.03*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59083cb35327.pdf} & -0.1*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59085aa7994.pdf} & -0.06*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590825371acd.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{2008} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59082139773f.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.07***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590813a662c1.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.05***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590846ec4f93.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}2009 & +0.1*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59082d4433d5.pdf} & +0.11*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59086b6f4684.pdf} & +0.07*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908441056ea.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{2010} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.15***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59088035bf5.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.04***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590840192f2.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.02.} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59082d6943ff.pdf}\\
\cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\hspace{1em}Mean Pre}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{+0.04***}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{0.01}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59087bca149d.pdf}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{-0.05***}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{0.01}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908151a3e53.pdf}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{-0.01.}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{0.01}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59085e8e4ebc.pdf}}}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{10}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Post-Disaster}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{2011} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.18***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590816fc6472.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.06***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59083f662c1c.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.04***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590834941f6.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}2012 & +0.13*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908542e6bb2.pdf} & -0.06*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59081d81e1e.pdf} & -0.02. & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908c4019e8.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{2013} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.16***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908d89586a.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.03**} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590848d435fc.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.02.} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590856d466e0.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}2014 & +0.18*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59083f706ae9.pdf} & -0.03** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908492b4ae2.pdf} & +0 & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908c4a4838.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{2015} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.09***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59085e631e74.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.02} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590863e5774.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.04***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59087c281388.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}2016 & +0.15*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590844244a3b.pdf} & -0.09*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908367405.pdf} & -0.03** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590875e27c1a.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{2017} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.13***} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590878184e8c.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.02*} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59082494210a.pdf} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.02} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590865b64e9e.pdf}\\
\hspace{1em}2018 & +0.12*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590856ef2247.pdf} & -0.08*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590823525ce.pdf} & -0.05*** & 0.01 & \includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590838d5151f.pdf}\\
\cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Mean Post}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.14***}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59085d885492.pdf}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.04***}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59083459767.pdf}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59084cc33736.pdf}}}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{10}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Average Treatment Effect}}}\\
\cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\hspace{1em}Post - Pre}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{+0.1***}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{0}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59081b0e56cd.pdf}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{+0}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{0}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590859137be8.pdf}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{+0}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{0}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59086e006a7e.pdf}}}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{10}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Net Gain over Time}}}\\
\cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{2018 - 2002}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{+0.12***}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_5908e6822c9.pdf}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.04***}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_59085a237dd8.pdf}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.06***}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01}}} & \cellcolor{grey}{\textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{}\includegraphics[width=0.67in, height=0.17in]{C:/Users/tmf77/OneDrive - Cornell University/Documents/rstudio/urban_regimes/paper_files/figure-latex/pointrange_590829e8747.pdf}}}\\
\bottomrule
\insertTableNotes
\end{longtabu}
\end{ThreePartTable}
\endgroup{}

\newpage
\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1}
\doublespacing

First, I hypothesized that (\textbf{H1}) urban regimes have changed
measurably over the last 2 decades. Our linear hypothesis tests
presented in \textbf{Table \ref{tab:linearhyp}} reveal consistent
evidence that urban regime scores changed over time. After controlling
for numerous alternative explanations listed in the Methods, time had a
positive, statistically significant impact on social welfare scores: the
annual impact in 2018 was +0.12 standard deviations greater than in 2002
(p \textless{} 0.01), and when comparing annual effects post-disaster to
annual effects pre-disaster, cities saw their social welfare scores rise
each year an average of +0.1 standard deviations more post-disaster than
they did pre-disaster (p \textless{} 0.001). Indeed, each consecutive
year from 2004 onwards yielded increases in social welfare regime
scores. (14 years saw increases significant of at least the p
\textless{} 0.05 level.) These findings also complement the descriptive
evidence of considerable changes in social welfare regimes presented in
Figures \ref{fig:bands} and \ref{fig:map}.

Second, I hypothesized that (\textbf{H2}) social welfare regimes
increased annually \emph{moreso} than did other urban regimes. Indeed,
my fully specified models project that, independent of other traits,
between 2002 and 2018, a city's social welfare regime score was expected
to increase +0.12 standard deviations (p \textless{} 0.01), while their
developmental and middle-class regime scores were expected to decrease
by -0.04 (p \textless{} 0.01) and -0.06 (p \textless{} 0.01) standard
deviations, respectively. Further, comparing the pre- and post-disaster
periods, an average year post-disaster saw a +0.1 standard deviation
increase in their social welfare score (p \textless{} 0.001), but their
developmental and middle-class regime scores saw no substantive or
statistically insignificant changes.

\hypertarget{collective-action-effects}{%
\subsection{5.2 Collective Action
Effects}\label{collective-action-effects}}

Third, I hypothesized that (\textbf{H3}) cities with greater collective
action potential, as measured by types of social capital, saw greater
increases in their social welfare regime scores. Indeed,

\hypertarget{discussion}{%
\section{6. Discussion}\label{discussion}}

\doublespacing

This study measured cities' proclivities towards each of 4 types of
urban regimes, commonly discussed in urban policy in the US or Japan
\citep{stone_1989, stoker_and_mossberger_1994, bassett_1996, hill_fujita_2000, kilburn_2004, ramirez_perez_et_al_2008, sorensen_2011}.
These included regimes that aim to maintain the (1) \textbf{status quo}
in their city (rather undesirable for climate resilience initiatives);
regimes that focus on promoting (2) \textbf{economic development} in
their city (helpful for accelerating renewable energy booms, but perhaps
not for ensuring equitable development with public support); regimes
that focus on promoting (3) \textbf{progressive middle class interests}
like health care, education, and environmentalism (helpful for renewable
energy, but not as common in less prosperous communities); and regimes
that focus on increasing (4) \textbf{opportunity through social welfare
policies}.

In the cases examined in Japan, cities with this last regime type
(social welfare) tended to be deeply interested in disaster resilience,
where city officials were deeply concerned with residents' vulnerability
during crisis.

Yet, as I show above in the results of this study, some cities'
governing coalitions are overcoming these collective action barriers and
spending more on redistributive policies than others. This is critical,
considering that my findings show \emph{social welfare regimes} are
becoming increasingly common in Japan, and are often mid-size or rural
communities where great changes in social welfare are not generally
expected.

\hypertarget{contributions-to-literature}{%
\subsection{6.1 Contributions to
Literature}\label{contributions-to-literature}}

This study's measures also provide a resource for scholars building new
theories of urban politics. After a wealth of investigation of urban
politics in Japan over the last 30 years, some case studies may no
longer be representative of the current state of their city. Until now,
the field has lacked a tool for systematically identifying \emph{which}
cities need re-investigation. \textbf{Table \ref{tab:keycities}}
demonstrates an example of how scholars can utilize these new indices to
evaluate commonly cited case studies whose urban regime type may have
since changed.

\textbf{Table \ref{tab:keycities}} lists several notable cities,
selected for their relevance to the literature. For each city, columns
report (1) the citing literature, (2) this study's numeric and
categorical regime classifications for each city in 2000, compared with
(3) their classifications in 2018. Each city's index scores are
represented as relative percentiles (0-100\%), showing \emph{how much}
they lean towards that given regime.

On the one hand, these indices also point to the intractability of
regimes in some cities. For example, several cities have retained their
classification. Mitaka, an affluent suburb of Tokyo, remains a caretaker
regime
\citep{steiner_1957, fukuchi_and_yamaguchi_1997, ohashi_and_phelps_2021},
insulated from economic decline in other suburbs. Sendai, the
metropolitan hub of the Tohoku region, remains a middle-class,
progressive regime, with stable, continuity in leadership even after
substantial impacts of the 2011 triple disaster
\citep{morris_2012, tsuji_2017}. Finally, the rustbelt city of Muroran
\citep{edgington_2013} continues to focus strongly on social welfare
even after 20 years, albeit with some change towards a hybrid regime.

On the other hand, some cities have changed greatly, and may merit
renewed investigation from scholars. Fukushima City originally ranked as
a developmental regime, but has since transitioned to a caretaker
regime, as the city has had to balance competing interests from national
government, local families, weakened agriculture, and decontamination
efforts \citep{otsuki_2016, abeysinghe_2022}, each aiming to stem
out-migration through different means \citep{zhang_2014}.

Ishinomaki City, formerly a middle-class regime, has become a hybrid
regime, adding considerable spending relative to its peers on social
welfare and economic development to attempt to recover after the tsunami
devastated its local industry, agriculture, and tourism businesses
\citep{dimmer_and_lindenberg_2014, matthews_2017, ji_and_imai_2022}.
Such findings raise questions for other Tohoku cities investigated after
the disaster \citep{aldrich_2019, cheek_2020}.

Similarly, Kobe transitioned from a 2000-era focus on middle-class
interests and economic development \citep{nunokawa_2007, funck_2007} to
a new focus on social welfare and middle-class interests; much has
written about Kobe's less-than-ideal recovery policies from the 1994
disaster, where developers gentrified many low-income neighborhoods and
displaced families from housing
\citep{yasui_2007, edgington_2010, aldrich_2012, maly_2012}. This shift
away from developmental-approaches raises exciting questions about what
has changed in Kobe since their early-recovery period. The author hopes
that this table might provide a spotlight for cities in need of further
study.

\singlespacing

\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{0.5}\selectfont
\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.5}

\begingroup\fontsize{9}{11}\selectfont

\begin{ThreePartTable}
\begin{TableNotes}
\item[1] SW = Social Welfare. MC = Middle Class. D = Developental. C = Caretaker.
\item[2] Numbers rank city-year as a percentile (0-100) compared to all other city-years.
\end{TableNotes}
\begin{longtabu} to \linewidth {>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.5cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.5cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{2.5cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.7cm}>{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{0.3cm}>{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{0.3cm}>{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{0.3cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.7cm}>{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{0.3cm}>{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{0.3cm}>{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{0.3cm}}
\caption{\label{tab:keycities}Table \ref{tab:keycities}: \textbf{Urban Regime Change in Key Cities from Literature}}\\
\toprule
\multicolumn{3}{c}{ } & \multicolumn{4}{c}{Regime in 2000} & \multicolumn{4}{c}{Regime in 2018} \\
\cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){4-7} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){8-11}
Prefecture & Municipality & Literature & Type & SW & MC & D & Type  & SW  & MC  & D \\
\midrule
\cellcolor{gray!6}{Tokyo} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{Mitaka} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{Steiner 1957; Fukushima \& Yamaguchi 1997; Ohashi \& Phelps 2021} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{C} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{25} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{26} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{2} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{C} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{51} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{10} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{2}\\
\addlinespace
(former) & Kagoshima-ken &  & D & 27 & 41 & 55 & NA & NA & NA & NA\\
\addlinespace
\cellcolor{gray!6}{Fukushima} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{Fukushima} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{Otsuki et al. 2016; Abeysinghe et al. 2022} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{D} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{8} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{27} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{53} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{C} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{44} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{36} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{35}\\
\addlinespace
Miyagi & Sendai & Morris 2012; Tsuji 2017 & MC & 14 & 68 & 48 & MC & 48 & 58 & 33\\
\addlinespace
\cellcolor{gray!6}{Miyagi} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{Ishinomaki} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{Dimmer \& Lindenberg 2014; Matthews 2017; Ji \& Imai 2022} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{MC} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{4} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{53} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{22} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{SW-MC-D} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{85} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{81} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{87}\\
\addlinespace
Hyogo & Kobe & Nunokawa 2007; Funck 2007; Yasui 2007; Edgington 2010; Aldrich 2012; Maly et al. 2012 & MC-D & 42 & 74 & 65 & SW-MC & 68 & 49 & 11\\
\addlinespace
\cellcolor{gray!6}{Hokkaido} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{Muroran} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{Edgington 2013} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{SW} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{54} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{46} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{37} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{SW-MC} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{70} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{64} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{38}\\
\bottomrule
\insertTableNotes
\end{longtabu}
\end{ThreePartTable}
\endgroup{}

\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1}

\doublespacing

\hypertarget{limitations}{%
\subsection{6.2 Limitations}\label{limitations}}

Finally, this study does come with several limitations. In addition to
the aforementioned challenges of approximating urban regime shifts using
spending as a proxy measure, recent scholarship has highlighted cases
where urban regimes are more difficult to characterize. Depending on the
country, urban governance and levels of local autonomy may vary due to
institutional differences, laws, and tax structure.62-63 Some cities
lack stable governing coalitions, dubbed 'non-regimes.'64 In practice,
these either would not spend consistently on the same priorities, or
would spend little on any new priorities, resembling a caretaker regime.

Neighborhood organizations, nonprofits, and labor movements can also
motivate and structure these cities' regimes
\citep{logan_and_rabrenovic_1990, nissen_1995, takao_2006, camou_2014, stone_et_al_2015}
as can higher levels of government
\citep{sellers_2002, tsukamoto_2012, shin_et_al_2015}. These limitations
aside, urban regimes, even amidst varying governance conditions, remain
a useful way to characterize that development remains so prioritized in
some cities, while opportunity-expanding policies remain prioritized in
others \citep{funck_2007, ji_and_imai_2022}. This study's measurement
using developmental, opportunist, and progressive regime indices helps
achieve that aim.

\singlespacing

\hypertarget{references}{%
\section*{References}\label{references}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{References}

\hypertarget{refs}{}
\begin{CSLReferences}{0}{0}
\end{CSLReferences}

\newpage

\hypertarget{appendix-appendix}{%
\section*{(APPENDIX) Appendix}\label{appendix-appendix}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{(APPENDIX) Appendix}

\hypertarget{table-of-contents}{%
\subsection{Table of Contents}\label{table-of-contents}}

\newpage

\begin{figure}
\includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{viz/distribution} \caption{Figure A1: Distributions of Urban Regime Indices}\label{fig:figure_A1}
\end{figure}

\newpage

\hypertarget{table-a1-descriptives}{%
\subsection{Table A1: Descriptives}\label{table-a1-descriptives}}

\begin{landscape}

\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{0.5}\selectfont
\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.5}

\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1}

\end{landscape}
\newpage

\begin{landscape}
\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{0.5}\selectfont
\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.5}

\begingroup\fontsize{10}{12}\selectfont

\begin{ThreePartTable}
\begin{TableNotes}
\item \textit{Note: } 
\item Statistical Significance: *** p < 0.001, ** p < 0.01, * p < 0.05, . p < 0.10. All p-values and asterisks reflect two-tailed hypothesis tests. (F-statistic is one-tailed by default.)
\item[1] Annual Fixed Effects included in every model. Prefectural effects added starting in Model 5. Excluded from table to conserve space.
\item[2] Lagged Outcome by 1 year in Models 6-8, to control for path dependence and any temporal correlation. Constrains final models to 2001-2018.
\item[3] Lagged Controls: All other numeric predictors lagged by 1 year in Models 7-8 to avoid endogeneity bias. Despite the 1\% drop in R$^{2}$, lagging controls ensures more conservative estimates.
\item[4] Transformations: In Model 8, predictors were log-, logit-, or root-transformed to fit their distribution and nonlinear trends, adding a small constant where necessary. These made statistically significant improvements in log-likelihood compared to Model 7 (p < 0.001). Area, income, and migration were logged. Revenue used the square root; the 10th root was used for Population (to avoid colinearity with spending), disaster deaths, damages, recovery spending, and relief spending (since the distributions have frequent, meaningful zeros). Age, voteshares, social capital, education, and unemployment were logit tranformed, since they are bounded at 0 and 1. Bridging social capital was split into quartiles, to avoid collinearity with regime indicators.
\end{TableNotes}
\begin{longtabu} to \linewidth {>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}}
\caption{\label{tab:tablea2}Table A2: \textbf{OLS Models of Social Welfare Regimes.}
        \newline \normalsize
        \textit{Dependent Variable}: Social Welfare Regime Index (Z-score). 
        \newline \normalsize
        \textit{Unit of Observation}: 31493 Japanese municipality-years (2000-2018), with annual fixed effects.}\\
\toprule
\multicolumn{8}{c}{ } & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Best Model} \\
\cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){9-9}
\multicolumn{1}{c}{ } & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 1} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 2} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 3} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 4} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 5} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 6} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 7} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 8} \\
\cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){2-2} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){3-3} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){4-4} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){5-5} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){6-6} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){7-7} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){8-8} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){9-9}
 & Basic Controls & Disaster Controls & Other Regimes & Collective Action & Prefecture Effects$^{1}$ & Lagged Outcome$^{2}$ & Lagged Controls$^{3}$ & Transformed$^{4}$\\
\midrule
\addlinespace[0.3em]
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Demographics}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Population} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00**  (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00**  (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00**  (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.00)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.00)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.04*** (0.01)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Inhabitable Area (ha) & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & 0.00    (0.00) & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & -0.00    (0.00) & 0.00    (0.00) & \textbf{0.01*** (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{\% Over Age 65} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{3.40*** (0.04)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{3.39*** (0.04)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{2.41*** (0.04)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{2.38*** (0.05)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{1.87*** (0.05)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.43*** (0.03)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.47*** (0.04)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.06*** (0.01)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Income per capita (1000s of yen) & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00**  (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*   (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*   (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.09*** (0.01)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Revenue}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Revenue per capita (1000s of yen)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}}\\
\hspace{1em}\% National \& Prefectural Funding & \textbf{0.42*** (0.03)} & \textbf{0.72*** (0.04)} & \textbf{0.90*** (0.03)} & \textbf{0.78*** (0.03)} & \textbf{0.41*** (0.04)} & \textbf{0.23*** (0.02)} & \textbf{0.06**  (0.02)} & 0.01.   (0.00)\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Real Term Budget Balance (+/-)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.00)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.00)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Disaster Conditions}}}\\
\hspace{1em}Disaster Deaths (per 100,000) &  & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & 0.00.   (0.00) & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & -0.00.   (0.00) & \textbf{-0.00**  (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & 0.00    (0.01)\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Disaster Damage (per 100,000)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.00)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.00)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01*   (0.00)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Hit by 2011 tsunami (1/0) &  & 0.01    (0.01) & 0.00    (0.01) & -0.01    (0.01) & \textbf{0.11*** (0.01)} & \textbf{0.03**  (0.01)} & \textbf{0.03**  (0.01)} & \textbf{0.02*   (0.01)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Disaster Spending}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Disaster Recovery Spending Rate} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00**  (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}Disaster Relief Spending Rate &  & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00**  (0.00)} & -0.00    (0.00) & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.01*** (0.00)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Other Urban Regimes}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Middle Class Regime Index} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.16*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.15*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.12*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.04*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.02*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01*** (0.00)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Developmental Regime Index &  &  & \textbf{0.23*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.20*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.23*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.07*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.02*** (0.00)} & -0.00    (0.00)\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Political Parties}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{\% LDP Coalition Votes: Lower House} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.03*   (0.01)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.03.   (0.01)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01    (0.01)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.01)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\\
\hspace{1em}\% LDP Coalition Votes: Prefecture &  &  &  & 0.01.   (0.01) & \textbf{0.04*** (0.01)} & \textbf{0.02*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.02*** (0.00)} & \\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Collective Action}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Bonding Social Capital (0-1)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.77*** (0.05)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.97*** (0.08)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.28*** (0.05)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.32*** (0.05)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.07*** (0.01)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Bridging Social Capital (Quartiles) &  &  &  & \textbf{0.02*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.04*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.01**  (0.00)} & \textbf{0.01*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.01**  (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Linking Social Capital (0-1)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.29*** (0.03)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.05    (0.06)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.14*** (0.04)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.10**  (0.04)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01.   (0.01)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Extra Controls}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\% College Educated &  &  &  & \textbf{-0.67*** (0.03)} & \textbf{-0.38*** (0.04)} & 0.01    (0.02) & \textbf{-0.13*** (0.03)} & -0.01    (0.01)\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{\% Unemployed} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{2.03*** (0.14)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.66*** (0.09)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.45*** (0.10)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.04*** (0.01)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Total Migration (per capita) &  &  &  & \textbf{1.29*** (0.07)} & \textbf{0.44*** (0.07)} & 0.08.   (0.04) & \textbf{0.13**  (0.05)} & 0.00    (0.00)\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Lagged Outcome (1 year prior)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.73*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.79*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.78*** (0.00)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Constant & -1.47*** (0.02) & -1.54*** (0.02) & -1.21*** (0.02) & -0.81*** (0.04) & -0.37*** (0.07) & -0.09.   (0.05) & 0.12*   (0.05) & 0.52*** (0.07)\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Model Fit}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{N (city-years)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{29755} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{29755} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{29755}\\
\hspace{1em}Max VIF & 2.30 & 2.33 & 4.36 & 5.16 & 8.12 & 8.16 & 8.06 & 8.40\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{F-statistic (df)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{3011.7***    (25)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{2619.8***    (30)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{3182.5***    (32)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{2769.3***    (39)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{1590.6***    (86)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{4105.5***    (86)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{3803.8***    (86)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{3834.3***    (86)}\\
\hspace{1em}Change in Deviance (df) & - & -113.1***     (5) & -636.5***     (2) & -133.4***     (7) & -495.4***    (47) & -1298.9***     (1) & -1410.5***     (1) & -38.5***    (17)\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Sigma (Avg. Error)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.35} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.34} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.31} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.30} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.28} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.18} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.18} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.18}\\
\hspace{1em}R$^{2}$ & \textbf{0.71} & \textbf{0.71} & \textbf{0.76} & \textbf{0.77} & \textbf{0.81} & 0.92 & 0.92 & \textbf{0.92}\\
\bottomrule
\insertTableNotes
\end{longtabu}
\end{ThreePartTable}
\endgroup{}

\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1}

\end{landscape}
\newpage

\begin{landscape}
\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{0.5}\selectfont
\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.5}

\begingroup\fontsize{10}{12}\selectfont

\begin{ThreePartTable}
\begin{TableNotes}
\item \textit{Note: } 
\item Statistical Significance: *** p < 0.001, ** p < 0.01, * p < 0.05, . p < 0.10. All p-values and asterisks reflect two-tailed hypothesis tests. (F-statistic is one-tailed by default.)
\item[1] Annual Fixed Effects included in every model. Prefectural effects added starting in Model 13. Excluded from table to conserve space.
\item[2] Lagged Outcome by 1 year in Models 14-16, to control for path dependence and any temporal correlation. Constrains final models to 2001-2018.
\item[3] Lagged Controls: All other numeric predictors lagged by 1 year in Models 15-16 to avoid endogeneity bias. Despite the 1\% drop in R$^{2}$, lagging controls ensures more conservative estimates.
\item[4] Transformations: In Model 16, predictors were log-, logit-, or root-transformed to fit their distribution and nonlinear trends, adding a small constant where necessary. These made statistically significant improvements in log-likelihood compared to Model 15 (p < 0.001). Area, income, and migration were logged. Revenue used the square root; the 10th root was used for Population (to avoid colinearity with spending), disaster deaths, damages, recovery spending, and relief spending (since the distributions have frequent, meaningful zeros). Age, voteshares, social capital, education, and unemployment were logit tranformed, since they are bounded at 0 and 1. Bridging social capital was split into quartiles, to avoid collinearity with regime indicators.
\end{TableNotes}
\begin{longtabu} to \linewidth {>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}}
\caption{\label{tab:tablea3}Table A3: \textbf{OLS Models of Developmental Regimes.}
        \newline \normalsize
        \textit{Dependent Variable}: Developmental Regime Index (Z-score). 
        \newline \normalsize
        \textit{Unit of Observation}: 31493 Japanese municipality-years (2000-2018), with annual fixed effects.}\\
\toprule
\multicolumn{8}{c}{ } & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Best Model} \\
\cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){9-9}
\multicolumn{1}{c}{ } & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 9} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 10} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 11} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 12} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 13} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 14} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 15} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 16} \\
\cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){2-2} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){3-3} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){4-4} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){5-5} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){6-6} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){7-7} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){8-8} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){9-9}
 & Basic Controls & Disaster Controls & Other Regimes & Collective Action & Prefecture Effects$^{1}$ & Lagged Outcome$^{2}$ & Lagged Controls$^{3}$ & Transformed$^{4}$\\
\midrule
\addlinespace[0.3em]
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Demographics}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Population} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*   (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.00)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.00)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.12*** (0.01)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Inhabitable Area (ha) & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.05*** (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{\% Over Age 65} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{3.38*** (0.05)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{3.32*** (0.05)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{1.66*** (0.05)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{1.88*** (0.06)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{2.02*** (0.06)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.46*** (0.04)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.48*** (0.04)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.06*** (0.01)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Income per capita (1000s of yen) & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00**  (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.12*** (0.01)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Revenue}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Revenue per capita (1000s of yen)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01*** (0.00)}}\\
\hspace{1em}\% National \& Prefectural Funding & \textbf{-0.91*** (0.05)} & \textbf{-0.41*** (0.05)} & \textbf{-0.51*** (0.04)} & 0.04    (0.04) & \textbf{0.23*** (0.04)} & \textbf{0.52*** (0.03)} & \textbf{-0.41*** (0.03)} & \textbf{-0.04*** (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Real Term Budget Balance (+/-)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.00)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Disaster Conditions}}}\\
\hspace{1em}Disaster Deaths (per 100,000) &  & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00**  (0.00)} & \textbf{0.05*** (0.01)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Disaster Damage (per 100,000)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00**  (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.00)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}Hit by 2011 tsunami (1/0) &  & \textbf{0.05*   (0.02)} & \textbf{0.05**  (0.02)} & \textbf{0.11*** (0.02)} & \textbf{0.05**  (0.02)} & -0.00    (0.01) & \textbf{0.03*   (0.01)} & 0.00    (0.01)\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Disaster Spending}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Disaster Recovery Spending Rate} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01*** (0.00)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Disaster Relief Spending Rate &  & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.01*   (0.00)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Other Urban Regimes}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Social Welfare Index} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.38*** (0.01)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.31*** (0.01)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.33*** (0.01)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.11*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.05*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.02*** (0.00)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Middle Class Regime Index &  &  & \textbf{0.31*** (0.01)} & \textbf{0.27*** (0.01)} & \textbf{0.25*** (0.01)} & \textbf{0.11*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.01*   (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.02*** (0.00)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Political Parties}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{\% LDP Coalition Votes: Lower House} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01    (0.01)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.02)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.01)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.02    (0.01)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\\
\hspace{1em}\% LDP Coalition Votes: Prefecture &  &  &  & -0.01    (0.01) & \textbf{0.02*   (0.01)} & -0.00    (0.01) & 0.01    (0.01) & \\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Collective Action}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Bonding Social Capital (0-1)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.55*** (0.06)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.21*   (0.09)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.13*   (0.06)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.16*   (0.07)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.04**  (0.01)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Bridging Social Capital (Quartiles) &  &  &  & \textbf{0.07*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.05*** (0.00)} & 0.01.   (0.00) & \textbf{0.02*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.01*** (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Linking Social Capital (0-1)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.18*** (0.04)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.24*** (0.07)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.04    (0.04)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.05    (0.05)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.01.   (0.01)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Extra Controls}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\% College Educated &  &  &  & \textbf{-1.70*** (0.04)} & \textbf{-1.34*** (0.04)} & \textbf{-0.23*** (0.03)} & \textbf{-0.23*** (0.03)} & \textbf{-0.01*   (0.01)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{\% Unemployed} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-5.60*** (0.15)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-6.55*** (0.17)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-1.65*** (0.11)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-1.92*** (0.12)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.09*** (0.01)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Total Migration (per capita) &  &  &  & \textbf{0.42*** (0.08)} & \textbf{0.19*   (0.08)} & -0.07    (0.05) & \textbf{0.31*** (0.06)} & \textbf{0.04*** (0.01)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Lagged Outcome (1 year prior)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.72*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.81*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.77*** (0.00)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Constant & -0.68*** (0.03) & -0.82*** (0.02) & 0.02    (0.02) & -0.26*** (0.06) & 0.05    (0.09) & 0.03    (0.06) & 0.13*   (0.06) & 0.31*** (0.08)\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Model Fit}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{N (city-years)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{29755} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{29755} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{29755}\\
\hspace{1em}Max VIF & 2.30 & 2.33 & 3.86 & 4.92 & 8.12 & 8.17 & 8.06 & 8.40\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{F-statistic (df)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{3146.4***    (25)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{2893.6***    (30)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{3718.3***    (32)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{3720.6***    (40)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{2128.6***    (86)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{5488***              (86)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{4723.9***    (86)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{4808.6***    (86)}\\
\hspace{1em}Change in Deviance (df) & - & -458.6***     (5) & -1323.9***     (2) & -805.5***     (8) & -651.8***    (46) & -1923***              (1) & -2127***              (1) & -99.4***    (17)\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Sigma (Avg. Error)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.46} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.44} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.39} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.36} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.33} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.21} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.22} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.22}\\
\hspace{1em}R$^{2}$ & \textbf{0.71} & \textbf{0.73} & \textbf{0.79} & \textbf{0.83} & \textbf{0.85} & 0.94 & 0.93 & \textbf{0.93}\\
\bottomrule
\insertTableNotes
\end{longtabu}
\end{ThreePartTable}
\endgroup{}

\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1}

\end{landscape}
\newpage

\newpage
\begin{landscape}

\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{0.5}\selectfont
\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.5}

\begingroup\fontsize{10}{12}\selectfont

\begin{ThreePartTable}
\begin{TableNotes}
\item \textit{Note: } 
\item Statistical Significance: *** p < 0.001, ** p < 0.01, * p < 0.05, . p < 0.10. All p-values and asterisks reflect two-tailed hypothesis tests. (F-statistic is one-tailed by default.)
\item[1] Annual Fixed Effects included in every model. Prefectural effects added starting in Model 21. Excluded from table to conserve space.
\item[2] Lagged Outcome by 1 year in Models 22-24, to control for path dependence and any temporal correlation. Constrains final models to 2001-2018.
\item[3] Lagged Controls: All other numeric predictors lagged by 1 year in Models 23-24 to avoid endogeneity bias. Despite the 1\% drop in R$^{2}$, lagging controls ensures more conservative estimates.
\item[4] Transformations: In Model 24, predictors were log-, logit-, or root-transformed to fit their distribution and nonlinear trends, adding a small constant where necessary. These made statistically significant improvements in log-likelihood compared to Model 23 (p < 0.001). Area, income, and migration were logged. Revenue used the square root; the 10th root was used for Population (to avoid colinearity with spending), disaster deaths, damages, recovery spending, and relief spending (since the distributions have frequent, meaningful zeros). Age, voteshares, social capital, education, and unemployment were logit tranformed, since they are bounded at 0 and 1. Bridging social capital was split into quartiles, to avoid collinearity with regime indicators.
\end{TableNotes}
\begin{longtabu} to \linewidth {>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{1.6cm}}
\caption{\label{tab:tablea4}Table A4: \textbf{OLS Models of Middle Class Regimes.}
        \newline \normalsize
        \textit{Dependent Variable}: Middle Class Regime Index (Z-score). 
        \newline \normalsize
        \textit{Unit of Observation}: 31493 Japanese municipality-years (2000-2018), with annual fixed effects.}\\
\toprule
\multicolumn{8}{c}{ } & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Best Model} \\
\cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){9-9}
\multicolumn{1}{c}{ } & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 17} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 18} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 19} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 20} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 21} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 22} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 23} & \multicolumn{1}{c}{Model 24} \\
\cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){2-2} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){3-3} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){4-4} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){5-5} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){6-6} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){7-7} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){8-8} \cmidrule(l{3pt}r{3pt}){9-9}
 & Basic Controls & Disaster Controls & Other Regimes & Collective Action & Prefecture Effects$^{1}$ & Lagged Outcome$^{2}$ & Lagged Controls$^{3}$ & Transformed$^{4}$\\
\midrule
\addlinespace[0.3em]
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Demographics}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Population} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00**  (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.07*** (0.01)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Inhabitable Area (ha) & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & 0.00    (0.00) & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.03*** (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{\% Over Age 65} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{1.26*** (0.05)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{1.24*** (0.04)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.44*** (0.05)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.44*** (0.06)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.11    (0.07)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.15*** (0.04)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.14**  (0.04)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.01)}\\
\hspace{1em}Income per capita (1000s of yen) & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.00*** (0.00)} & -0.00.   (0.00) & \textbf{-0.04*** (0.01)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Revenue}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Revenue per capita (1000s of yen)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*** (0.00)}}\\
\hspace{1em}\% National \& Prefectural Funding & \textbf{-0.86*** (0.04)} & \textbf{-0.53*** (0.04)} & \textbf{-0.59*** (0.04)} & \textbf{-0.63*** (0.04)} & \textbf{-0.58*** (0.05)} & \textbf{0.07*   (0.03)} & \textbf{-0.27*** (0.03)} & \textbf{-0.04*** (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Real Term Budget Balance (+/-)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00**  (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00*   (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.00)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Disaster Conditions}}}\\
\hspace{1em}Disaster Deaths (per 100,000) &  & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00**  (0.00)} & -0.00    (0.00) & -0.00.   (0.00) & 0.00    (0.00) & 0.00    (0.00) & \textbf{0.03**  (0.01)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Disaster Damage (per 100,000)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*   (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*   (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.00)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00**  (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00.   (0.00)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.00)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}Hit by 2011 tsunami (1/0) &  & -0.01    (0.02) & -0.03.   (0.02) & \textbf{-0.03*   (0.02)} & -0.02    (0.02) & -0.02.   (0.01) & 0.01    (0.01) & 0.00    (0.01)\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Disaster Spending}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Disaster Recovery Spending Rate} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*   (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00*   (0.00)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.00)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}Disaster Relief Spending Rate &  & \textbf{-0.00*** (0.00)} & \textbf{-0.00**  (0.00)} & -0.00.   (0.00) & -0.00    (0.00) & 0.00    (0.00) & \textbf{0.00**  (0.00)} & 0.01.   (0.00)\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Other Urban Regimes}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Social Welfare Index} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.23*** (0.01)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.23*** (0.01)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.19*** (0.01)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.06*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.04*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.03*** (0.00)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Developmental Regime Index &  &  & \textbf{0.27*** (0.01)} & \textbf{0.27*** (0.01)} & \textbf{0.28*** (0.01)} & \textbf{0.11*** (0.00)} & 0.00    (0.00) & \textbf{-0.02*** (0.00)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Political Parties}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{\% LDP Coalition Votes: Lower House} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.03.   (0.02)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.02    (0.02)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.01)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.01)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{}\\
\hspace{1em}\% LDP Coalition Votes: Prefecture &  &  &  & \textbf{-0.02*   (0.01)} & -0.01    (0.01) & -0.00    (0.01) & 0.01    (0.01) & \\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Collective Action}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Bonding Social Capital (0-1)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.53*** (0.07)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.25**  (0.10)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.04    (0.06)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.11    (0.07)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.03*   (0.01)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Bridging Social Capital (Quartiles) &  &  &  & \textbf{-0.01*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.02*** (0.00)} & 0.00    (0.00) & \textbf{0.02*** (0.00)} & \textbf{0.01*** (0.00)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Linking Social Capital (0-1)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.15*** (0.04)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.10    (0.07)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.00    (0.05)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01    (0.05)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.00    (0.01)}\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Extra Controls}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\% College Educated &  &  &  & \textbf{0.25*** (0.04)} & 0.09.   (0.05) & \textbf{0.16*** (0.03)} & \textbf{-0.08*   (0.03)} & 0.00    (0.01)\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{\% Unemployed} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-1.50*** (0.16)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-1.27*** (0.18)}} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.01    (0.12)} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-1.18*** (0.12)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{-0.07*** (0.01)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Total Migration (per capita) &  &  &  & \textbf{1.02*** (0.08)} & \textbf{1.33*** (0.08)} & \textbf{0.21*** (0.06)} & \textbf{0.33*** (0.06)} & \textbf{0.02*** (0.01)}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Lagged Outcome (1 year prior)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.75*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.80*** (0.00)}} & \textbf{\cellcolor{gray!6}{0.80*** (0.00)}}\\
\hspace{1em}Constant & -0.74*** (0.02) & -0.82*** (0.02) & -0.24*** (0.02) & 0.19**  (0.07) & -0.45*** (0.09) & -0.09    (0.06) & 0.13*   (0.06) & -0.01    (0.08)\\
\addlinespace[0.25cm]
\hline
\multicolumn{9}{l}{\textbf{\makecell[l]{\\Model Fit}}}\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{N (city-years)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{31493} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{29755} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{29755} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{29755}\\
\hspace{1em}Max VIF & 2.30 & 2.33 & 4.38 & 5.32 & 8.12 & 8.16 & 8.06 & 8.40\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{F-statistic (df)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{1039.7***    (25)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{921.8***    (30)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{1242***              (32)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{1016.3***    (40)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{552***              (86)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{1872.4***    (86)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{1715.6***    (86)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{1727.8***    (86)}\\
\hspace{1em}Change in Deviance (df) & - & -148***              (5) & -867.7***     (2) & -54***              (8) & -365.3***    (46) & -2177.3***     (1) & -2337***              (1) & -29.7***    (17)\\
\hspace{1em}\cellcolor{gray!6}{Sigma (Avg. Error)} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.41} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.40} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.37} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.36} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.35} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.22} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.23} & \cellcolor{gray!6}{0.23}\\
\hspace{1em}R$^{2}$ & \textbf{0.45} & \textbf{0.47} & \textbf{0.56} & \textbf{0.56} & \textbf{0.60} & \textbf{0.84} & \textbf{0.83} & \textbf{0.83}\\
\bottomrule
\insertTableNotes
\end{longtabu}
\end{ThreePartTable}
\endgroup{}

\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1}

\end{landscape}

\bibliography{mybibfile.bib}


\end{document}
